JERUSALEM ó Four attacks by Palestinians in Jerusalem and a city 40 miles away killed three Israeli Jews and wounded at least a dozen others in two hours on Tuesday morning, the police said, the most intense eruption so far in two weeks of escalating violence that has alarmed Israel and flummoxed its security forces.

The Israeli authorities said two assailants boarded a public bus in Jerusalem and shot and stabbed riders, killing two men. The third Israeli fatality occurred in an ultra-Orthodox neighborhood of Jerusalem, when a Palestinian worker for the Israeli telephone company rammed the companys car into pedestrians, then got out and attacked them with an ax. There were also two stabbings in Raanana, a city of 80,000 that is home to many American immigrant families.

Police officers killed one of the bus attackers and wounded the other, while a security guard fatally shot the phone company worker.

The body of a Palestinian in the Pisgat Zeev section of East Jerusalem. Security forces shot him on Monday after he carried out a stabbing attack.Stabbings, and Deadly Responses, Add to Israels Security Challenge OCT. 12, 2015
The bodies of Noor Hassan, 30, and Rahaf Hassan, 2, at their funeral. They were killed by an Israeli retaliatory airstrike in Gaza.Israeli Retaliatory Strike in Gaza Kills Woman and Child, Palestinians SayOCT. 11, 2015
Palestinians carried a wounded man during clashes with Israeli soldiers on the Israeli border in  Eastern Gaza City on Friday.Israeli Soldiers Kill 6 Palestinians in Gaza as West Bank Unrest GrowsOCT. 9, 2015
The mother of Abdulrahman Obeidallah, 13, who was killed by Israeli forces, at his funeral on Tuesday near Bethlehem.Fears of New Intifada Accompany Surge in Mideast ViolenceOCT. 6, 2015
It started with knives, then cars and now guns, said Aliza Ben Zichri, a retired kindergarten teacher who was one of the many who rushed to the scene of the bus attack after hearing gunfire.

Why not put them under curfew. Ms. Ben Zichri, 59, asked of the citys 300,000 Palestinian residents. I should be able to walk freely.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel called an emergency meeting of top security officials and ministers for Tuesday afternoon. A police spokeswoman said the steps to be considered included a complete closing of Jerusalems Arab neighborhoods, whose residents are generally not citizens of Israel but can freely roam the country and often work in Jewish areas, and an easing of gun-licensing procedures.

At the scene of the bus attack, Mayor Nir Barkat of Jerusalem called for new restrictions on Arab neighborhoods in the city.

We have to stop and place a curfew, he said. We must widen and upgrade the steps taken up until now.

Mr. Barkat, who last week urged residents with licensed guns to start carrying them in the streets, added This has to stop, even if residents pay a price in their quality of life. We need to stop this and take control of the reality we live in.

The outbreak of violence on Tuesday came after four stabbing attacks on Monday in Jerusalem, including one in which a 13-year-old Jew riding his bicycle was critically wounded by two Palestinian cousins, 13 and 15. The younger assailant was hit by a car and severely hurt as he tried to flee, the police said, while the older one was fatally shot by officers, prompting outrage.

Nabil Abu Rudeineh, spokesman for President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority, called the killing of the 15-year-old a heinous crime and compared it to an episode widely seen as having helped incite the second Palestinian intifada, or uprising, in 2000.

If the Israeli government continues with this escalation of this dangerous method of executions, the region will be in a position that cannot be controlled, and everyone will pay a heavy price, Mr. Rudeineh said in a statement reported by Palestinian news outlets.

Riyad Mansour, the Palestinian ambassador to the United Nations, sent the Security Council an urgent letter on Monday night listing numerous cases in which Israeli forces fatally shot attackers, as well as people protesting against Israels occupation in the West Bank and rushing toward the fence that separates Israel from the Gaza Strip.

Each day that passes, more innocent lives are lost, as is any hope to reach a peaceful two-state solution in the future, the letter says. The violations mentioned above should trigger immediate action by the international community, including the Security Council, to finally take measures to provide the Palestinian civilian population with immediate protection.

There have been more than 20 attacks, mostly stabbings, already this month, killing a total of seven Israeli Jews. At least 11 of those suspected of being assailants have been shot dead by Israeli security forces or, in one case, a victim who pulled out a pistol. Most of the attacks have been in Jerusalem, but violence has also struck in Kiryat Arba, an Israeli settlement in the occupied West Bank. in the cultural and financial capital, Tel Aviv. and in far-flung, normally peaceful towns.

A 15-month inquiry into the disintegration of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 in the skies over eastern Ukraine has concluded that the aircraft was most likely attacked from the ground by a Russian-made missile, Dutch air accident investigators said on Tuesday.

The findings ó based on distinctive metal shrapnel and traces of paint in the bodies of crew members in the cockpit, near where the missile hit ó are the most detailed evidence so far from a five-nation investigative team that has retrieved and sifted through several tons of debris and human remains.

While the findings stop short of assigning responsibility for the crash, a task that has been left to Dutch prosecutors, they appear consistent with a theory widely promoted by the authorities in the United States and Ukraine that the plane, a Boeing 777, was shot down by Russian-backed separatists armed with an SA-11, or Buk, surface-to-air missile.

Igor Tipunov at his home on Tuesday. The hole in his ceiling was made by a woman's body that crashed through after Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down last year.
Alexander Borodai, a separatist official, center, at a site where the airliner came down. He says the rebels do not have the technical means to have shot it down.Rebels in Ukraine Crowed of Past Attacks, but Deny This OneJULY 18, 2014
Emergency workers on Saturday carried a body from the site of the Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 crash in the Donetsk region. For many, the disaster brought home a struggle that had seemed distant.With Jet Strike, War in Ukraine Is Felt GloballyJULY 19, 2014
graphic Russias Endgame in UkraineMARCH 9, 2015
Russia has vehemently disputed that theory, and it continued to do so on Tuesday with a competing presentation, saying that the missile must have been fired from Ukrainian-held territory, and that it was of a type that is no longer found in Russias arsenal.

The report on the July 17, 2014, crash, which killed all 298 people aboard, is being presented at a news conference at 115 pm at the Gilze-Rijen Air Base in the Netherlands by Tjibbe Joustra, chairman of the Dutch Safety Board. The flights passengers and crew members came from about a dozen countries, but two-thirds of those on board were Dutch citizens.

The board was sharply critical of the Ukrainian authorities for failing to close the airspace above the conflict zone. It found that 160 civil aviation flights went through on the day of the crash, until the airspace was closed.

Why was Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 flying over an area where an armed conflict was taking place. Mr. Joustra asked, using a common reference to the flight number. The question was on the minds of many people after the crash. The answer was as straightforward as it is disquieting almost all operators were flying over that area. And why. Because nobody thought that civil aviation was at risk.

There was sufficient reason to close the airspace as a precaution, but the Ukrainian authorities failed to do so, he said.

The team of investigators was led by the Netherlands but included members from four other countries heavily affected by the crash Australia, Belgium, Malaysia and Ukraine. In addition to what brought down the aircraft, the safety board has examined why the plane was flying over a region in conflict. whether the passengers would have been conscious as the plane went down. and why some relatives had to wait as long as 14 days before getting confirmation that their loved ones were on board.

In addition to studying the causes of the crash, the Dutch report will also identify a number of shortcomings in the systems that governments have in place for communicating risks to commercial airliners when flying over conflict zones.

From the outset, the Russian government has tried to offer alternative versions of what caused the plane to break up over eastern Ukraine.

Initially, the Defense Ministry presented what generals said was radar data indicating that a Ukrainian fighter jet had flown nearby, possibly shooting down the Malaysia Airlines flight. This year, officials with Almaz-Antey, the state corporation that manufactures the Buk antiaircraft missiles, held a news conference in Moscow to say that they believed one of their missiles had shot down the plane, but that an analysis of the angle of impact showed it must have been fired from territory controlled by the Ukrainian Army.

To coincide with the Dutch announcement, Almaz-Antey scheduled a news conference on Tuesday to reveal the results of what the company said was its own investigation, which it added was an expensive experiment in which a Buk warhead was detonated near the fuselage of a passenger jet.

Then, this month, after a Ukrainian security official had suggested in an interview with the Dutch news media that shrapnel removed from the bodies of the victims proved a Buk was to blame, Tass, the Russian state news agency, quoted an independent expert objecting that it was too early to conclude such a missile brought down the plane.

Tass quoted the expert, Ivan Konovalov, the director of a Moscow research center, the Center for Strategic Trends, as saying that if the Dutch Safety Board indeed reaches a firm conclusion that the Boeing was struck by a Buk antiaircraft rocket, then it should be taken into consideration that at that time only the armed services of Ukraine had these complexes and the Peoples Republics of Donbas had no such complex systems then or now. He was referring to pro-Russian separatist governments set up in the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine.

The Kremlin has denied any involvement in arming separatist fighters in eastern Ukraine or the shooting down of the Malaysia Airlines flight.

The crash has highlighted concerns among aviation authorities about the risks posed to civilian aircraft by missiles fired from the ground.

Little more than a week after the crash, American and European regulators briefly banned their airlines from flying to and from Ben-Gurion International Airport in Tel Aviv after a missile fired from Gaza landed near it.

The European Aviation Safety Agency recently published a warning to airlines alerting them to the potential risks of flying through portions of Iranian and Iraqi airspace after Russian warships in the Caspian Sea fired cruise missiles into territory held by the Islamic State in Syria.

At least three times a week, Malaika hikes up the mountain, past mulberry and pine trees, to a clearing where she can get cellphone reception. She calls her family to reassure them that the Islamic State fighters have not come for her yet.

Below, her village ó Bagh, in the Maamand Valley in eastern Afghanistan ó has been gutted by the Islamic State militants who overran it three months ago. Most of the houses have been looted, burned or simply taken over by the fighters, and the 80 or so families that lived there have been forced to seek refuge near Jalalabad city.

Malaika, vigorous in her late 50s, is one of three women who decided to stay behind to try to keep their homes.

The poor woman is guarding the windows and the planks of the two rooms that remain, her husband, Mullah Jan, said last month. Mr. Jan was held by the militants for two months until he paid them $500 ransom. We had 10 goats and one cow. They took all of it.

When reports began emerging last year that some Afghan militants had shifted their allegiance to the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, the government and international response remained measured. Experts noted that in Afghanistan, the Islamic State represented more of a splintering of the Taliban than a major expansion of the core group out of Syria and Iraq.

But even as the Taliban are winning major victories against the government this year, including the capture of Kunduz, they are not exerting monolithic control. The Islamic State has made major inroads in turf battles against Taliban commanders, particularly in places in Nangarhar Province like the Maamand Valley. And the result, rather than weakening the overall insurgency, has mostly been to inflict more chaos and misery for Afghan civilians.

The people in eastern Afghanistan were not sure what to make of it at first. To them, the shaggy-haired militants were largely the same old Taliban under a new black flag.

But one big difference soon became obvious The fighters were suddenly flush with cash. Rumors circulated that they were paying a signing bonus of $400 to $500, a persuasive offer in a country where a lack of job prospects has helped fuel a new wave of youth emigration.

In a series of quick strikes, the Islamic State fighters began driving out local Taliban units, and officials say the splinter group now has a clear foothold across several districts in eastern Nangarhar Province, in rugged terrain on the border with Pakistan that had long been mostly out of government control.

The fighters may mostly be former Taliban, but they appear to have wholeheartedly taken up the calculated cruelty that the Islamic State has become known for, consolidating their hold with a brutality that has been shocking even by the standards of the Afghan insurgency.

Residents say that as soon as the jihadists would take a village they immediately began rounding up anyone even glancingly associated with either the government or the Taliban, including tribal elders. Many were summarily executed, including one group that was massacred en masse in a bomb detonation captured on video.

The provincial deputy director for the Refugees and Repatriation Ministry, Ewaz Khan Basharat, said initial data showed that more than 17,000 families in Nangarhar had been displaced by the new groups violence. Other officials and tribal elders estimate that the number is much higher.

Some of the worst atrocities have been reported in Achin District, where the Maamand Valley and Malaikas village, Bagh, are located.

The raiders demanded that villagers in the district submit a list of widows and unmarried girls. In some parts, they declared that marriages that had happened under government recognition were suddenly invalid, according to Zaiullah Amaray, a member of the Nangarhar Provincial council. At first, women were allowed to leave the house in burqas, but then were told not to leave at all.

They said, ëIf anyone has young women or widows, we want to marry them off, recalled Aslam Jan, 60, who finally fled Achin this summer after decades of weathering every intrusion to come through. The Russians invaded, I didnt leave my home. The Americans invaded, I didnt leave, he said. We had held up through everything. But we couldnt give up our children.

Early one evening in Bagh, Islamic State fighters marched dozens of elders up a mountain, where most of them remained captive for two months on charges of helping the Taliban and trying to rally a fight against the Islamic State.

About two weeks in, 10 of the prisoners ó including Malaikas brother-in-law, Mohamed Younus ó were taken to a lush hillside. More fighters arrived on horseback and began digging a large trench that had been lined with explosives. The prisoners, hands tied and eyes covered, were herded in.

Their last moments, and the aftermath of the explosion that killed them, were captured by the militants video cameras from at least three angles. Two fighters can be seen igniting a long fuse at each of its ends before running out of the frame. A huge blast sends flesh and dirt flying against the camera lenses.

The Islamic State brutality in Achin was so extreme that some local Taliban commanders surrendered to the government, and some moved their families to displacement camps in government-controlled areas.

One man there, Laal Zaman, 55, said he had been with the Taliban from the beginning. But he insisted that his cell of the insurgency remained very local, his guns strictly aimed against foreign military forces. Even as he fought the international coalition, he said, four of his sons served in the Afghan Army in the countrys south.

Now, Mr. Zaman says he is doubly a target for the Islamic State for being Taliban, and for having sons who are soldiers.

Before they got bogged down in a fight for territory with the Taliban, the Islamic State militants had pushed through four districts in no time to reach the gates of Hisarak, a strategic district that shares a border with Kabul Province. Up to 27 small groups of local Taliban had pledged allegiance to them, increasing the number of Islamic State fighters to as many as 1,100, according to official estimates.

But the Taliban soon realized the scope of the threat and began rallying more than a thousand fighters from adjacent provinces, in addition to their estimated 4,200 fighters in Nangarhar. A Taliban spokesman admitted to being challenged in some districts of the province.

The United States military also started taking action. Acting on intelligence provided by the Afghan spy agency, the National Directorate of Security, American drones targeted areas held by the Islamic State in as many as 21 operations since July, killing around 300 fighters, including several of their senior commanders, according to Afghan officials.

The regional branch of the group, called the Islamic State in the Khorasan, an ancient name for the region that includes Afghanistan and Pakistan, does not yet seem to have much coordination with the main groups leadership in Iraq and Syria, officials say.

Many of the regional movements leaders have a history of shifting allegiances in a long insurgency, their move to the Islamic State banner just another change of flags, though one that has brought with it a manual of scorched-earth terrorist tactics and banditry.

Many of the leaders of the Islamic State in the Khorasan, including the groups supreme commander, Hafiz Saeed Khan, are former members of the Pakistani Taliban from the tribal areas of that country. Mr. Saeed, along with his fighters, moved across the border into Afghanistan after Pakistani forces waged an offensive in the tribal areas this year.

The most prominent of Mr. Saeeds Afghan deputies is Abdul Rahim Muslim Dost, a 55-year-old former poet and essayist with an extremist past. Mr. Muslim Dost, who lived most of his life in Pakistan, was detained by the security forces there soon after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, officials said. He was accused of having ties to Al Qaeda, and the United States military sent him to the prison camp at Guant·namo Bay, Cuba. He was released in 2005, and joined the Pakistani Taliban before defecting to the new Islamic State branch.

In a video pledging allegiance to the Islamic States leader and self-declared caliph, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, Mr. Muslim Dost said he had seen a vision of the Islamic State while he was imprisoned at Guant·namo. He dreamed of a palace with a large closed door, which he said was the house of the caliphate. Above the door was a clock that pointed to the time 12 minutes before 12 oclock.

It came to my mind that the caliphate would be founded after 12 years, God willing, he said in his pledge. This interpretation of my vision was made real.

For four years, American policy toward Syria has been built on a wish and a prayer a wish that President Bashar al-Assad would leave and a prayer that the moderate Syrian opposition would be more than it is. Now Russia has stepped up its game, and the response from the American government and many commentators seems to be to wish harder and pray more, while condemning Russia for intruding where it supposedly doesnt belong.

As much as many Americans and Europeans may abhor what President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia did in Crimea and Ukraine, Moscows intervention in Syria may offer the first glimmer of hope for ending the quagmire there. Mr. Putin is right that only stable governance and security will allow Syrian refugees to return home.

Rather than pursue decisive victory, America must seek to end this war with a less dramatic, less satisfying settlement.

The United States should have two goals in Syria. First, bring order to those parts of the country that the Islamic State does not control. Second, strive to build a coalition of forces that can contain the Islamic State and eventually replace it. Russias intrusion could offer a chance to achieve both.

-_---------------------------------------------------------

This means setting aside American prejudices and heated political rhetoric. Russia isnt an intruder in Syria. it has been involved there for decades, just as America has been involved throughout the Middle East for more than 60 years. Mr. Assad is Russias protege, and Syria is an operations base for the Russian military. The United States has its own, significantly larger set of friends and operating facilities in the region.

At present, both powers have an interest in regional stability. Violent jihadist movements pose more of a threat to Russia than to America. many Russians have already died at the hands of terrorists, and thousands of Russian-based jihadists have flocked to the Islamic State with the intent to return home eventually.

Russia also has valuable leverage in Syria that America lacks a military presence on the ground, a link with a weak but operating regime in Damascus, working ties with the Iranian and Iraqi governments, and an intelligence-sharing agreement with both that could well include Iranian allies like Hezbollah.

The United States still has hundreds of aircraft and thousands of troops in the area, as well as strong ties to the Kurds. But it has few links with Iran, a troubled relationship with the weak Iraqi government, very poor intelligence in Syria and a military training program for the moderate Syrian opposition that ó recognized as a complete failure ó has now been abandoned.

With proper safeguards and caution, a broader regional coalition could be a powerful tool against the Islamic State. American officials should acknowledge these realities and use the assets still available to them to advance their humanitarian and anti-extremist goals.

Russia must face reality as well. Mr. Putin will have to accept that Mr. Assad cant remain in office in perpetuity and that his regime must change. The alternative is chaos, an opportunity for the Islamic State to embed itself and expand its operations, and an end to any role in Syria for Mr. Assads minority Alawite sect (an offshoot of Shiite Islam). A rump coastal state with Mr. Assad in charge, which may be Russias fallback option, wouldnt remove the larger threat the Islamic State poses to Russias security.

There is a risk that Russia might overreach, as the United States did in Iraq and as both countries did in Afghanistan, if Mr. Putin imagines that outside military force alone can defeat the Islamic State. American hawks like Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham make this same mistake. Theyve forgotten that opposing outside military interference is a critical ingredient of extremists recruitment efforts.

America and Russia must accept that as outsiders, they will never be able to confront, contain and eliminate the Islamic State alone. Only a regional coalition could do so.

Working together, Washington and Moscow could take advantage of their respective ties with the regional powers that actually have the manpower and operating space to act Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, the Gulf states and the Kurds. While any coalition would have internal tensions ó most notably between Turkey and the Kurds ó combined Russian and American pressure could help convince all parties to focus on the Islamic State today and leave other concerns for later.

To be sure, Russias main aim at the moment is bolstering Mr. Assad by attacking various anti-regime forces and leaving others to deal with the Islamic State. But groups like the Nusra Front ó Al Qaedas affiliate in Syria ó are not Americas friends either, and there is potential for an effective division of labor. Coordinating our actions could ensure that Russia does not focus on the groups America supports and could prevent the dangerous accidents that tend to arise in the fog of war.

A joint Russian-American effort may fail to solve the Syrian problem. Its not a perfect remedy, but the partial overlap in American and Russian interests is the most promising route toward a solution. American officials must end their table-thumping about Russian intrusion, recognize that we are past the Cold War, and get down to the business of statecraft.

Despite an Israeli security crackdown that includes giving the police greater leeway to open fire and mobilizing 1,400 border police reserve officers, Israel is struggling to contain a spasm of violence.

Palestinians carried out four attacks against Israelis in Jerusalem on Monday alone.

In one, a 13-year-old Israeli boy in Pisgat Zeev, a Jewish area of East Jerusalem, was riding his bicycle when two Palestinians from a nearby neighborhood stabbed him, wounding him critically, according to the police. The assailants, cousins 13 and 15, also severely wounded a 25-year-old man.

The younger attacker was injured as he tried to flee, apparently hit by a car, according to the police. Officers fatally shot the elder one, the police said, when he charged at them with a knife and ignored calls to stop.

Two Israelis have been killed and more than 20 hurt in more than 15 knife attacks across the country just this month. About 10 Palestinians have been fatally shot by the security forces while they were carrying out, or attempting to carry out, attacks, or after snatching weapons from soldiers or police officers.

The Israeli authorities say they are unable to pre-empt or halt the attacks through intelligence or other means since they are largely being carried out by so-called lone wolves Palestinian individuals, many of them teenagers, unknown to the security services, apparently acting without the backing of any organization and almost spontaneously.

But the resort to live fire, often with lethal consequences, is increasingly opening Israel up to criticism, placing the government in a quandary.

Earlier Monday, a Palestinian man, Mustafa Khateeb, 18, from another East Jerusalem neighborhood, stabbed a border police officer at the Lions Gate entrance to the walled Old City. The officer was wearing a protective vest and was unharmed. Police officers fatally shot the assailant and were later praised by their superiors for their swift response.

Hours later, a Palestinian teenager from East Jerusalem stabbed a police officer near the national Police Headquarters, and the officer shot and wounded her. On Monday night, a Palestinian attacked a soldier with a knife and tried to grab his gun on a bus near Jerusalems central bus station. The assailant seized a pistol that a police officer on board dropped during the struggle, the police said. other officers arrived and fatally shot him.

Under domestic pressure, the Israeli government wants to project an iron fist in an effort to deter further attacks and to restore the Israelis shattered sense of personal security. Yet human rights groups, Palestinian activists and Arab members of the Israeli Parliament say that at least in some episodes that were caught on video, officers appeared to have acted too aggressively, firing at suspects who did not appear to be presenting any immediate mortal danger, and at times shooting to kill.

Some critics argue that too tough a reaction only pours gasoline on the bonfire, inspiring more attacks and protests that sometimes escalate into deadly clashes. Some of the videos of police shootings have had the added effect of turning the Israelis, in the eyes of some people, from the victims of terrorism into aggressors.

Israeli analysts say there are no easy answers.

When somebody is standing with a knife, whether a man or woman, and threatens to stab you and your assumption is they intend to kill you, you want to protect yourself, said Michael Herzog, a retired brigadier general and Israel-based fellow of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

Clearly it is preferable to arrest the perpetrators and bring them to justice, he said, but you cant control it. People are under psychological pressure. Mr. Herzog added, however, that some cases might warrant further investigation.

Video of the shooting of Fadi Alon, 21, who stabbed and wounded a 15-year-old Jewish boy, Moshe Malka, outside the Old City on Oct. 4, appeared to show Mr. Alon being killed by the police as he was trying to flee from Israeli civilians who were pursuing him, shouting Shoot him!

Amnesty International, which has accused Israel of using excessive force, said that killing appears to have been an extrajudicial execution.

Ahmad Tibi, an Arab member of Israels Parliament, questioned why the police killed Mr. Alon but spared Yishai Schlissel, an ultra-Orthodox Jewish man who stabbed six marchers at a gay pride parade in Jerusalem in July before officers wrestled him to the ground. One of Mr. Schlissels victims, a 16-year-old girl, later died of her wounds.

Video of the shooting and wounding of an Arab Israeli woman wielding a knife at a bus station in the northern Israeli town of Afula has also raised doubts about the threat she posed.

The acting national police chief, Bentzi Sau, said open-fire regulations were based on means and intention. Noting that the woman in Afula was shot in the lower body, he said that she had been warned to drop the knife but failed to do so, meaning that the forces had to act to neutralize the threat.

Mr. Herzog said he had seen the Afula video. The police panicked. It is hard to judge people in that situation, he said.

An Israeli resident of Pisgat Zeev, who requested anonymity to avoid the attention of the police, said she had seen the shooting of the young assailant on Monday from a distance of a few meters. Police officers jumped out of a van and started shooting, she said. She could not see if the youth was holding a knife, but she said the police had acted too quickly to have given much warning.

They fired at least 10 shots, she said. Its like the Wild West here. This was overkill.

And like many Palestinians who are skeptical of Israeli police accounts, relatives of Mr. Khateeb, the suspect from Lions Gate, said they found it hard to believe he had done any harm.

They shot Mustafa for no reason whatsoever, like they have been doing to every other Palestinian lately, said his aunt, Bakriya al-Khateeb Bakri, 44. He had plans with my husband to go to Nablus on Thursday, pick up our daughters who study at Al Najah University and buy an entertainment system for his car.

Feeding the anger, the Palestinian news media often denies that any attack took place.

Al Haq, a Palestinian human rights group, noted that under global standards the use of firearms is permissible as an absolute last resort against imminent threat of death or serious injury, and only when other extreme measures are proven insufficient.

Sarit Michaeli of the Israeli human rights group Btselem said, On an immediate level, of course the police have an obligation to protect citizens. But they are expected to do so by using the minimum amount of force. If necessary, the police could aim to shoot suspects in the leg, she said.

She added that the police were operating in a public climate that encouraged strong, decisive action, pointing to supportive messages from police superiors, politicians and some of the news media.

Jerusalems mayor, Nir Barkat, who has urged citizens with gun licenses to carry their personal weapons, described the attacks in his city on Monday as a shocking form of evil.

He added in a statement, I would like to commend and thank the security forces, security guards and dedicated citizens who took swift action in all of the recent events, bravely neutralizing terrorists and stopping killing sprees.

Yair Lapid, the leader of the centrist Yesh Atid party, which currently sits in the opposition, visited Lions Gate on Monday. Of the police response to the attempted stabbing that morning he said That should be the operating model. Whoever comes at us with a knife needs to know that they will be shot.






